There was a gothic girl, sitting on a rock the size of a boulder. She played guitar like no one I’ve ever heard before. It was a combination of death & black metal, but it sounded so smooth and seemed so effortless that it seemed as if her fingers just glided over it. Probably they did, but by the sound of her playing I fell in love with her. She had flamboyant black hair and eyes deep like a cellar.
 
That was the moment the big bang happened. I say big bang not because it was such a big blast, but because the way the explosion happened was similar in the way the first bang, which gifted us the universe, unfolded. I had an image of a spinning top, illuminated at the center of earth. The spinning top spun so fast it ripped the DNA structure of life apart into tiny shrapnel’s which, in turn, generated new DNA hexagons. These new form hexagons transformed humankind like nothing ever would. Funny thing is, the blast wasn’t audible at all. In fact, you couldn’t even feel it even if you knew it would happen. In this moment, while I stood there by this girl, I felt a warm and intense energy flow through me. As my gaze swayed, I saw that people around me stopped in their tracks the same way I did. Now for me this isn’t unusual, but everyone at the same time? Usually I would just assume its me who is acting weird. This time it was different.
 
In another sequence I learned that in fact that explosion happened at the center of our planet. The warm sensation from the blast was still present, but to a lesser extent than at the time of the impact. As I watched the news, they showed a spinning top, glowing white from propulsion, as it expands and creates an infinite amount of energy in the matter of seconds. Particularly interesting was the fact that nothing was destroyed. This was the biggest blast which happened since the original big bang is confirmed, according to the news outlet. This fact was particularly hard for me to grasp. How can it be the grandest explosion that ever happened but still not destroy anything in its path? Unfortunately, scientist were still on the search why. One plausible explanation for this weird behavior had one of them to offer: the blast didn’t happened on a physical level. Although people felt it afterwards, no one was affected, but still everyone was. The detonation didn’t change the atom alignment of our physical world, but changed the molecular structure of every living being. This was immense. At this moment it dawned on me why I was fascinated by this girl and why everyone stopped in their tracks at the second. Later they explained if for the common folks that the psychological shift that happened was like a hallucinogen or molly experience, but way more intense. This explanation at least satisfied my thirst to know what had happened at that moment, but I still felt like I was thrown out of my body. Hell even the whole world suddenly looked different. It was as if we transited collectively to another reality.